208 Feby 21st 1845 { Lateral spark from long wire around the Room }
Exp. 16. Again very bright spark on plus
Exp. 17. Next placed the knob of the small jar at a , mid way between the ends of the wire. The spark passed to the knob of the jar, and off again to the end of the other wire, or in other words it took the knob in its way, but although the snap was loud and the spark brilliant, the jar did not receive the least sign of electricity-, this is an interesting result.
The distance of the two ends of the wire was an inch and three quarters. The minus end of the wire was in contact with the out side coating of the jar.
Exp. 18. Repeated same exp, jar slightly charged plus. The spark in this case did not leave its line of direction.
Exp. 19. Repeated again, spark deviated, no charge to the jar.
Exp. 20 Repeated again, held the ball of the jar near the + side of a , the electrometer was now affected with plus electricity.
Exp. 21 Next Repeated the same, held the knob near minus side of the opening, electrometer unaffected. In this exp I found that the end of the wire was moved from the outside of the jar an inch.
Exp. 22 Repeated same, put ball of jar near minus side of a ; found charge minus .
Exp. 23 Again same as the last jar uncharged .
Feby 21st 1845 { Lateral spark from long wire around the room 209
Exp. 24 Again jar on the plus side, jar charged plus , in this exp. a lateral spark appeared to be given off to the jar.
Exp. 25 Repeated the same, again jar on the negative side of a ,charge seemingly affected the electrometer, and if any thing it was minus .
Exp. 26 Repeated again, jar very slightly minus on minus side.
Exp. 27 Again jar in middle of opening no charge was received, although the spark passed through the knob.
Exp. 28 Repeated again, jar at the negative side, no charge.
Exp. 29 Again jar placed on plus side, charge very slightly plus. In this case the discharge was full and instantaneous, but in some cases the discharge appears partial, and then of course the jar should be charged plus .
There should be a preponderance of plus charge in all these experiments, because in charging the jar, there was always a slight excess on the inside, because the jar was not a perfect sphere, or rather because it was not a sphere enclosed on all sides, as it should have been on the supposition of a perfect neutralization.
Repeated these experiments with a more delicate electrometer, the one of silver leaves had been used in all the experiments of this year until now. - I had gold leaf electrometer returned this morning.
