166 Monday Jany 20th 1845
Constructed this morning an electrometer with the silver leaves movable, and with this attempted to get a secondary current by motion of the secondary coil torn from the primary coil.
When the motion was made, a slight divergency of the leaves was perceived when the secondary coil was raised from the primary, and an attraction when the secondary conductor was let down.
When a spark was passed through the primary conductor, lateral sparks could be drawn from the secondary conductor similar to those from the primary conductor.
From all the experiments I have thus far made, it appears that a conductor during the moment of its transmission of a current ,is charged at the point opposite the wave, in the same manner that a conductor is charge by free electricity and that induction takes place, and a spark passes in the same manner as in the case of statical electricity. The wave is not simultaneously in every part of the wire, but at different moments it is at different points.
Also all the experiments indicate a difference in the action of a long wire transmitting a current from a large conductor, and one transmitting a discharge from a jar. See exp. 4, p 167. see page 154.
[end of page]
[beginning of page]
Jany 21st 1845 167
1 [sketch in left margin] Repeated the experiment to procure a lateral spark from a secondary current with a jar from which the knob had been removed.
1st. When the knob of the jar was in place, and and connected with the prime conductor of the machine, a bright spark passed between the two conductors.
2nd. When the jar was disconnected with the from prime conductor, a spark passed, but less than in the other case.
3rd. When the knob was removed, still a small spark passed.
2 Repeated the old experiment of putting a large zinc plate between the primary & secondary conductor. -- Result the same as that I have published,-- bright spark at opening of secondary conductor without the plate, none with the plate interposed.
3 [sketch in left margin] Next repeated Priestley's exp. Made a bend in a wire 40 feet long at or near each end. Sent charge from one jar through, found that spark passed through full an inch of air. see Priestley, page 349, vol. 2nd s-p 149 + 138.
4 Made the same exp with the same wire, and the free electricity from the large suspended disc, the spark was now not so long or so large as in the case of the jar. The direction as indicated by the jar cur't was +.
[end of page]
